<pre>
  BIP: <Leave Blank>
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: Post-Quantum Transition Window for Legacy P2PKH Outputs
  Author: AlthaafM <mohanedalthaaf@gmail.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2024-04-21
  License: BSD-2-Clause
</pre>

==Abstract==
This proposal defines a consensus-level soft fork to allow owners of legacy P2PKH addresses to commit to a Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) public key. By utilizing a "Commitment Transaction," users can secure dormant funds against future Shor's algorithm attacks before a global quantum threat is realized.

==Motivation==
Existing legacy addresses (P2PK/P2PKH) are vulnerable to private key derivation via Shor's algorithm once a Cryptographically Relevant Quantum Computer (CRQC) exists. This BIP provides a proactive mechanism for dormant wallet owners to transition to hash-based signatures (XMSS/LMS) without requiring an immediate move of funds, thereby reducing the risk of a "sudden" quantum collapse of the UTXO set.

==Specification==
A new Witness version is proposed to hold the Merkle Root of the user's Quantum-Resistant OTS keys.
1. *Flagging:* A transaction spending from a legacy input to a new 'Quantum-Encumbered' output.
2. *Commitment:* The scriptPubKey will contain a 32-byte hash (Merkle Root) as defined in the Reference Implementation.

==Reference Implementation==
The following Python 3 code implements the Merkle Tree Root generation used to secure dormant Bitcoin addresses. This commitment ensures that even with a quantum computer, the owner's "Root Identity" cannot be forged.

<pre>
import hashlib

def hash_pair(left, right):
    return hashlib.sha256(left + right).digest()

def build_merkle_root(leaves):
    current_level = leaves
    while len(current_level) > 1:
        if len(current_level) % 2 != 0:
            current_level.append(current_level[-1])
        next_level = []
        for i in range(0, len(current_level), 2):
            next_level.append(hash_pair(current_level[i], current_level[i+1]))
        current_level = next_level
    return current_level
</pre>

==Post-Draft Process==
This proposal is currently in the pre-draft feedback stage. The author intends to submit this for broader discussion on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to finalize the consensus rules for the transition window.

==Copyright==
This BIP is licensed under the 2-clause BSD license.
